LAURENCE KOZERA: Good
morning, everyone.
Thank you for
joining this session.
I hope that there is no one
standing because we do have
[INAUDIBLE].
OK.
No one's standing.
Cool.
So do you remember,
10 years ago, 2007,
when people didn't really think
that smartphones would really
become something?
Do you remember 2008,
only top executives
and a few nerds started
buying these smartphones
and actually using them?
And do you remember how straight
after this trend exploded
upwards?
And finally, do you remember
how many of you maybe thought,
oh, I wish I had spotted
that trend a bit earlier?
I wish I had put more
resources into it before.
I'm not asking for
a show of hands,
but I'm sure it happened
in some companies.
This change is happening
again right now
towards conversational
computing and smart assistance.
You may have heard this morning
from [? Rishi ?] that products
of the future--
I'm trying to quote precisely--
products of the future
should be conversational
and assisted.
This is what today is about.
This journey is
happening right now
and we're just at the beginning
of this typical new product
adoption curve.
We spotted the trend, we tried
to apply it to us at Google.
And this is why last year we've
announced a Google Assistant.
It's a natural conversation
between you and Google.
The Assistant is there to
help you throughout your day.
And it's there to help
you and to help users
across more than
100 million devices.
It's there on your phone.
It's on the Android,
it's on iOS.
It's there on your
watch and your headset.
You can have the Pixel
buds but you can also
have the latest Bose
headset, for instance.
The Assistant is there.
It can be on your speakers.
We have Google Home,
Google Home Mini.
We have more speakers that are
integrated from Sonos, Sony,
JLB and so on.
It can be also on your laptop
if you get a Pixelbook.
It can be on your TV if
you have an Android TV.
And I'm sure I'm
forgetting a few.
I think I covered most of them.
And there are more
surfaces coming.
There may be a huge
hint on this slide
but I'm not going to
spoil it just now.
There are just more and
more surfaces coming.
The audience is pretty big.
And the beauty of
the Assistant is
that it blends the latest
advances in terms of machine
learning-- you've heard
so far this morning a lot
about machine learning.
It has also artificial
intelligence
and natural language processing.
So it creates this very advanced
conversation that is assisted.
And when I say conversation
I don't mean just voice,
because with the
Assistant you can talk,
but you can also
type, you can tap,
or you can even use your camera.
Meaning you are in a session,
let's say, during a conference,
approaching lunchtime.
You want to organize
your lunch plans.
Maybe you don't want to
speak to your device.
Maybe you want to use
a keyboard instead.
You can do that.
Or even within the
same conversation
you may start with your voice
asking for a nice restaurant,
then being willing to
look at a menu and type
a few options on your screen,
and then use a keyboard
to actually confirm your order.
So all of this can happen
within the same conversation.
And with the camera, if you
are in a super busy situation
on the street, you don't
want to use a keyboard,
you don't want to try
to shout at your device
on a busy street, you
can just use your camera.
Point at something
and get the Assistant
starting from there with
the relevant information.
This is the beginning
of your conversation
directly from your environment.
Extremely powerful.
This Assistant is really there
to help you get things done.
From your daily things, like
building up your shopping list
to enjoying your media,
your favorite media at home.
You can start your music.
I know I use it to start
"Head, Shoulders, Knees, and
Toes" to play with my
little one at home.
I don't have to
take out my phone,
I don't have to do anything.
I can just talk to my
Google Home and it starts.
So you can start
your movie as well.
You can also dim your
lights to enjoy that movie.
You can do all of that, all of
your comforting zone at home,
you can set up thanks
to your Assistant.
Same in the morning.
You're in no rush, you're
brushing your teeth
in the bathroom.
You can listen to your
news using the Assistant.
There are already
many features that
are available that can
really help you get things
done throughout your day.
And with Actions on Google
there is going to be much more.
So what you want
to do as a company?
First of all, the
Assistant comes with all
of the Google properties.
So you want to make
sure that you're
happy with your presence within
the existing Google ecosystem.
Are you happy with
the way you show up
on search, the way
you show up on Maps,
with your content on YouTube?
Got all of that.
That's the beauty
of the Assistant.
It can be leveraged to
your users directly.
We're going into
machine learning,
so it's going to be leveraged.
But it needs to be right.
So make sure you invest
some time on that.
Same with your data.
If you are, say,
a news publisher
you want to leverage
your archive corpus.
You may want to throw a few
mockups at it before it's
leveraged by the Assistant.
All of this thinking,
you need to keep
embedding in your
roadmap to make sure
that you can leverage the
full power of the Assistant.
The second layer where
you can take action--
and this is why we're here
today-- is Actions on Google.
It's the developer platform
that allows you to build stuff
for the Assistant.
From the smartphone
integration, if you
happen to produce your
own smart [INAUDIBLE],,
to creating
conversation on apps.
And we're super proud because
we launched Actions on Google
last year only in
English only in the US,
as we tend to do because
that's where our engineers are
and we need to get
started somewhere.
But already over
the past months,
we've added first of all,
additional variations to just
English.
So now you can
build specifically
in British English, Australian
English, Canadian English,
and also in additional
languages, Japanese, Korean,
and my two favorite, in
French and in German.
If you're talking
about a voice product,
this is a tremendous
accomplishment.
But it was not enough
for our engineers.
So they kept adding
stuff to what you
can do with Actions on Google.
And they added a few
visual elements as well.
So now you can embed
an image carousel
to make sure that your user can
swipe through the options that
are available.
You can also use a
few suggestions tips
so that if your user is using
your Assistant up on a phone,
he can be guided throughout
the conversation flow.
You can give that input
to the conversation.
And last but not least--
[SNEEZE]
bless you-- we've added
transactional capabilities.
Meaning that users,
in the US for now
but coming soon to the UK
and to further countries,
users can now order
goods and services.
Just imagine the
potential of that.
This is pretty big.
And what I'm trying
to say here is
that now is really
the right time
to start building an
app for the Assistant.
You have a massive audience,
more than 100 million devices.
You have a platform
that is not crowded yet.
And for some services we
barely have any apps yet
or we don't even
have anyone yet.
So you have a
massive opportunity
there to be the first.
You have the opportunity to be
the first or even second, which
globally is still pretty good.
You also have, thanks
to the Assistant
to the conversation product,
you have the opportunity
to have this one on one
conversation with your users.
If you wanted to
call them one by one,
you couldn't do it
even so precisely.
This is brand new technology
where you can address
them one by one separately.
They're all signed in.
So just make sure
you leverage that.
And in terms of timing, the
last thing you want to do
is to wait for
additional features
to be available in your country.
You don't want to wait
for, say, transactions
to be available in Germany
before you start looking
at your 2018 roadmap and
see, OK, which developer can
we free up 20% to
start looking at this.
What you want to do is to
build a team right now,
have a few people,
give them the time
to learn about smart assistance,
not just the Google Assistant,
all of them.
They need to learn, they
need to train themselves,
they need to launch
they need to iterate.
And you want to be ready so
that every time a new feature,
a new capability comes
in you're already there
and you only have to enhance.
But this is very important.
Start building your
team right now.
And here are a few insights
briefly to get you started.
Conversation is more than
information retrieval.
This is very important.
Everybody is super
curious, I'm sure,
about the address of your
business, your opening times.
But for a smart assistant
it can be a bit boring.
You may want to
do more than that.
You want to try to be
entertaining, where it fits,
and customize your information.
You also want to be assistive
everywhere where you users are.
We said, you have
100 million devices.
You want to make sure that
you build an experience that
fits for every device so
that the user doesn't see you
as a nice app they can
use on their Google Home,
but as the one app
they want to use
for this service
throughout their surfaces--
on their watch, on their phone,
on the go, any situation.
And last but not least, when
you start building your app,
the first thing you have
to do before you even build
is to think thoroughly
about your use case.
You want to take one or two
days, a very conscious mindset
from the time you wake up in
the morning to the time you
go to bed, and identify all of
these tiny moments where you're
think, I wish technology
could make that easier for me.
If you find one that fits
well with your brand,
you have your use
case and this is where
you should start building.
So with no further
ado you I think
it's better that I
stop saying you should,
you shouldn't, but that's
you hear from someone who
has gone through this process.
And please welcome on
stage Ben from BlinkList.
[APPLAUSE]
BEN SCHUMAN-STOLER: Hi.
That's my face.
I'm Benjamin.
So I'm the head of
audio at BlinkList.
BlinkList Is an app that
is helping people learn
by taking the core ideas
of nonfiction books
and giving them to you in a way
you can either read or listen
to.
So why were we so
eager to build an app
for the Google Assistant?
Quick show of hands, this is
kind of dumb but it's easy.
How many people listened to
audio content in the last week?
Podcast, interviews,
yeah, everybody.
So why were we so excited
to build something
for the Google Assistant?
Because audio is magic.
You guys all said
you listen to audio.
But not just that, you guys
are probably doing something
while listening to audio.
And audio is magic because
it's the only thing
that you can fully
focus on while fully
focusing on something else.
How else can you
describe or explain
that feeling when you put
on your favorite episode
of "This American Life"
and then it's over,
and you come to and all of
a sudden dinner's ready.
Audio is magic.
And at BlinkList we're
trying to figure out
how to give people
these kind of aha
enlightening moments in ways
that fit their lifestyles.
A modern knowledge worker
needs to learn everywhere.
So this is the BlinkList
Minute, originally conceived.
We used it to give people more
content, a cool one minute's
worth of information, a
cool fact, cool story, joke,
take away from a great book in
a way where they already were.
We met them where they
were, in their inboxes.
It was a daily email.
Audio can work in the same
way if you meet people where
they're already listening.
Go to where people
are already listening.
Seems simple but it's
actually awesome.
Because as we've
already learned,
Google Assistant is going
to be available on 100
million-plus connected devices.
And that's even more important
considering what we know
about how people are listening.
You guys all raise your hands.
None of this is
surprising anymore.
Let's take podcast as a
stand in for audio content
that people like to learn from.
Can be interviews, can be
courses, it can be audio books.
We know that people
are listening a lot
and it's growing.
And we know that people
are listening everywhere.
They're listening at the
gym, they listen at work,
they listen in the car,
they listen on the bike.
And with 100 million-plus
connected devices,
it's a no-brainer.
So that's why we
were so excited.
How did we do it?
A few simple steps.
Click.
Number one, find a developer.
See you out there probably.
Number two, lock down a persona.
More on that in a second.
Number three, start
on the conversations
and use the tools
that Google gives.
Three and four, real quick.
Conversations is
becoming a buzzword now.
And the term, we heard Laurence
talk about conversations
as more than
information retrieval.
Go through the Google
documentation on conversations.
It's really helpful.
Because as you all know from
first dates and bad networking
events, starting a
conversation is hard sometimes.
And that's because, like
our testers found out
when we put them in a room with
Google Home with the BlinkList
Minute on Google
Assistant in the home,
the question is
sometimes, what do I say?
And that's the whole thing.
It's not easy to
start a conversation,
especially with something new.
So you could see that as a
challenge or you could see it
as something kind of fun.
We have a new technology
and we get to play with it
and figure out how people
are going to use it.
Because the technical
implementation is not really
the challenge.
There's a lot of
smart people here.
Google has made it so
easy to make the stuff,
even I understand how to do it.
And it's not the challenge of
actually building the tech.
The challenge is going
to be how people use it.
What do I say?
What am I talking to?
What is it actually going
to do once I say something?
So that can go down a kind
of scary, mind-bending path.
But we try to keep it simple.
Instead of thinking about
what am I talking to?
We took Google's advice
and started to think about
who am I talking to?
BlinkList is a company that is
trying to help people learn.
We read books.
It's awesome.
And our products have to reflect
that because it's what we know.
So if we're trying
to help people learn,
the Minute, the Assistant, the
Minute on Google Assistant,
she has to have a
persona that makes sense.
She's friendly, she's
attentive, she's funny,
but she's also smart and
she's got it under control.
She wants to help
you learn something.
She's going to be wherever
you want to learn something.
Right there, give you a
quick Minute to help you out.
And that's just
a piece of advice
I want everyone to keep in mind.
Laurence also hinted at.
We don't know necessarily
how people are going
to use these technologies.
They're out there
for us to build.
We're going to build on them.
But if we don't know what habits
or behaviors they are going
to lead to, then stick to what
you know, stick to your brand,
stick to your use cases.
Cue up the video.
There's a one-minute video
of how the Minute for Google
Assistant will work.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- OK, Google, talk
to BlinkList Minute.
- All right.
Here's the BlinkList Minute.
- Hey, sleepyhead, we're
adding some joie de vivre
to your mornings in this
BlinkList Minute, called "You
Snooze, You Lose."
- You can soothe your email
addiction in this BlinkList
Minute, called "Stop
Looking At Your Emails Now."
- You probably know that
your liver is essentially
your body's sewage plant.
In this Minute, we take a look
at a surprisingly simple way
to shave a few inches
off your waist.
- How much do you concentrate
on your food when you eat?
You probably tend to
gulp down your food
while reading, messaging,
or gawking at videos.
- Study after study
has shown that in order
to perform at our best we
need a good night's sleep.
Listen to this BlinkList
Minute, called "Thomas Edison,
the Man Who Hated Sleep."
- The BlinkList
Minute, helping you
fit new knowledge into
your daily routines.
- These ideas from nonfiction
books brought to life.
[END PLAYBACK]
BEN SCHUMAN-STOLER: OK.
It's cool, right?
[APPLAUSE]
Again, something the video is
trying to show, meeting people
where they already are.
Giving them audio
where they already
are through [INAUDIBLE].
To finish, what I
want to say, we're
all in here because we want
to see where this is going.
This was super helpful for me.
If you don't know,
follow the advice
of wizard man David Allen
on the "Simplify" podcast.
Look it up if you don't know it.
And just get moving
and course correct.
We got moving.
I hope you guys do too.
That's it for me.
I'll give it back to
Laurence to finish this off.
[APPLAUSE]
LAURENCE KOZERA: Thank you, Ben.
Thank you for sharing your
learnings, your best practices.
Very briefly, we've just
launched a community program.
This is for developers.
There are some perks.
First of all, if your app
is reviewed and approved you
can get $200 per month
in Cloud Credits.
This should cover more than
what you need to run your app.
So it's a nice perk.
You also get a
very fancy T-shirt.
So don't miss out on that one.
And very importantly as
well, if you have high usage,
an engaging app, if you
internationalize your app
and you're going to
be able to win Google
Home and additional goodies.
So it sounds a bit
trivial, but hopefully it's
a true motivation.
There is obviously
a winner dashboard.
So it should be a nice
motivation for developers.
And here are the resources.
The very fancy QR code here.
We made it happen.
There is even a small
teddy bear in the middle,
if you can spot that.
And that's going to lead
you to the instructions
to try out the Assistant,
depending on your device.
Now if you are more on the
product developer side,
this is what you want
to take a picture of.
These are the links that
are going to bring you
to the relevant documentation,
developers.google.com/actions.
You have everything
from the design
to the console to the review
process and the policy process.
We also have a
developer community.
There is a G+ community.
There is massive community
on Stack Overflow.
And we have a mailing list.
So if you want to know the
latest, what's happening,
what's launching,
what's enhanced,
make sure that you sign
up for that newsletter.
And it's a global
newsletter so you're
going to hear from the
latest from in the US
but also for your
region and your country.
Thank you very much.